==============================================================
Text Search with Basis Technology Rosette Linguistics Platform
==============================================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. include:: /includes/fact-enterprise-only-admonition.rst

Overview
--------

.. versionadded:: 3.2

In addition to the languages supported by text search in MongoDB,
MongoDB Enterprise provides support for the following additional
languages: Arabic, Farsi (specifically Dari and Iranian Persian
dialects), Urdu, Simplified Chinese, and Traditional Chinese.

To provide support for these six additional languages, MongoDB
Enterprise integrates Basis Technology Rosette Linguistics Platform
(RLP) to perform normalization, word breaking, sentence breaking, and
stemming or tokenization depending on the language.

MongoDB Enterprise supports RLP SDK 7.11.1 on Red Hat Enterprise Linux
6.x. For information on providing support on other platforms, contact
your sales representative.

.. seealso:: :doc:`/reference/text-search-languages`, :doc:`/tutorial/specify-language-for-text-index`

.. _text-search-with-rlp-prereq:

Prerequisites
-------------

To use MongoDB with RLP, MongoDB requires a license for the Base
Linguistics component of RLP and one or more languages specified above.
MongoDB does not require a license for all six languages listed above.

Support for any of the specified languages is conditional on having a
valid RLP license for the language. For instance, if there is only an
RLP license provided for Arabic, then MongoDB will only enable support
for Arabic and will not enable support for any other RLP based
languages. For any language which lacks a valid license, the MongoDB
log will contain a warning message. Additionally, you can set the
MongoDB log verbosity level to ``2`` to log debug messages that
identify each supported language.

You do not need the Language Extension Pack as MongoDB does not support
these RLP languages at this time.

Contact Basis Technology at info@basistech.com to get a copy of RLP and
a license for one or more languages. For more information on how
to contact Basis Technology, see http://www.basistech.com/contact/.

Procedure
---------

.. include:: /includes/steps/use-basis-tech-rlp.rst

Additional Information
----------------------

For installation help, see the RLP Quick Start manual or Chapter 2 of
the Rosette Linguistics Platform Application Developerâ€™s Guide.

For debugging any RLP specific issues, you can set the ``rlpVerbose``
parameter to ``true`` (i.e. ``--setParameter rlpVerbose=true``) to view
``INFO`` messages from RLP.

.. warning::

   Enabling ``rlpVerbose`` has a performance overhead and should only
   be enabled for troubleshooting installation issues.
