====
$mul
====

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Definition
----------

.. update:: $mul

   .. versionadded:: 2.6

   Multiply the value of a field by a number. To specify a
   :update:`$mul` expression, use the following prototype:

   .. code-block:: javascript

      { $mul: { field: <number> } }

   The field to update must contain a numeric value.

   .. include:: /includes/use-dot-notation.rst

Behavior
--------

Missing Field
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the field does not exist in a document, :update:`$mul` creates the
field and sets the value to zero of the same numeric type as the
multiplier.

Atomic
~~~~~~

:update:`$mul` is an atomic operation within a single document.

.. _multiplication-type-conversion:

Mixed Type
~~~~~~~~~~
Multiplication with values of mixed numeric types (32-bit integer,
64-bit integer, float) may result in conversion of numeric type. For
multiplication with values of mixed numeric types, the following type
conversion rules apply:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * -
     - 32-bit Integer
     - 64-bit Integer
     - Float

   * - **32-bit Integer**
     - 32-bit or 64-bit Integer
     - 64-bit Integer
     - Float

   * - **64-bit Integer**
     - 64-bit Integer
     - 64-bit Integer
     - Float

   * - **Float**
     - Float
     - Float
     - Float

.. note::

   - If the product of two 32-bit integers exceeds the maximum value
     for a 32-bit integer, the result is a 64-bit integer.

   - Integer operations of any type that exceed the maximum value for a
     64-bit integer produce an error.

Examples
--------

Multiply the Value of a Field
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Consider a collection ``products`` with the following document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { _id: 1, item: "ABC", price: 10.99 }

The following :method:`db.collection.update()` operation updates the
document, using the :update:`$mul` operator to multiply the value in
the ``price`` field by ``1.25``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.products.update(
      { _id: 1 },
      { $mul: { price: 1.25 } }
   )

The operation results in the following document, where the new value of
the ``price`` field ``13.7375`` reflects the original value ``10.99``
multiplied by ``1.25``:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { _id: 1, item: "ABC", price: 13.7375 }

Apply ``$mul`` Operator to a Non-existing Field
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Consider a collection ``products`` with the following document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { _id: 2,  item: "Unknown" }

The following :method:`db.collection.update()` operation updates the
document, applying the :update:`$mul` operator to the field ``price``
that does not exist in the document:

.. code-block:: javascript

    db.products.update(
       { _id: 2 },
       { $mul: { price: NumberLong(100) } }
    )

The operation results in the following document with a ``price`` field
set to value 0 of numeric type :ref:`shell-type-long`, the same type as
the multiplier:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "_id" : 2, "item" : "Unknown", "price" : NumberLong(0) }

Multiply Mixed Numeric Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Consider a collection ``products`` with the following document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { _id: 3,  item: "XYZ", price: NumberLong(10) }

The following :method:`db.collection.update()` operation uses the
:update:`$mul` operator to multiply the value in the ``price`` field
:ref:`NumberLong(10) <shell-type-long>` by :ref:`NumberInt(5)
<shell-type-int>`:

.. code-block:: javascript

    db.products.update(
       { _id: 3 },
       { $mul: { price: NumberInt(5) } }
    )

The operation results in the following document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   { "_id" : 3, "item" : "XYZ", "price" : NumberLong(50) }

The value in the ``price`` field is of type :ref:`shell-type-long`. See
:ref:`Multiplication Type Conversion Rules
<multiplication-type-conversion>` for details.

.. seealso:: :method:`db.collection.update()`,
   :method:`db.collection.findAndModify()`
